Django Database Backup
======================

This Django application provides management commands to help backup and
restore your project database to AmazonS3, Dropbox or Local Disk.

-  Keep your important data secure and offsite.
-  Use Crontab or Celery to setup automated backups.
-  Great to keep your development database up to date.

DATABASE SETTINGS
=================

The following databases are supported by this application. You can
customize the commands used for backup and the resulting filenames with
the following settings.

NOTE: The {adminuser} settings below will first check for the variable
ADMINUSER specified on the database, then fall back to USER. This allows
you supplying a different user to perform the admin commands dropdb,
createdb as a different user from the one django uses to connect. If you
need more fine grain control you might consider fully customizing the
admin commands.

MySQL
-----

**DBBACKUP\_MYSQL\_BACKUP\_COMMANDS (optional)** - List of commands to
use execute when creating a backup. Commands are sent to popen and
should be split into shlex tokens. By default, the following command is
run:

::

    mysqldump --user={adminuser} --password={password} --host={host} --port={port} {databasename} >

**DBBACKUP\_MYSQL\_RESTORE\_COMMANDS (optional)** - List of commands to
use execute when creating a backup. Commands are sent to popen and
should be split into shlex tokens. By default, the following command is
run:

::

    mysql --user={adminuser} --password={password} --host={host} --port={port} {databasename} <

PostgreSQL
----------

**DBBACKUP\_POSTGRES\_BACKUP\_COMMANDS (optional)** - List of commands
to use execute when creating a backup. Commands are sent to popen and
should be split into shlex tokens. By default, the following command is
run:

::

    pg_dump --username={adminuser} --host={host} --port={port} {databasename} >

**DBBACKUP\_POSTGRES\_RESTORE\_COMMANDS (optional)** - List of commands
to use execute when restoring a backup. Commands are sent to popen and
should be split into shlex tokens. By default, the following commands
are run:

::

    dropdb --username={adminuser} --host={host} --port={port} {databasename}
    createdb --username={adminuser} --host={host} --port={port} --owner={username} {databasename}
    psql --username={adminuser} --host={host} --port={port} --single-transaction {databasename} <

SQLite
------

**DBBACKUP\_SQLITE\_BACKUP\_COMMANDS (optional)** - List of commands to
use execute when creating a backup. Commands are sent to popen and
should be split into shlex tokens. By default, the following command is
run:

::

    ['<READ_FILE>', '{databasename}']

**DBBACKUP\_SQLITE\_RESTORE\_COMMANDS (optional)** - List of commands to
use execute when restoring a backup. Commands are sent to popen and
should be split into shlex tokens. By default, the following command is
run:

::

    ['<WRITE_FILE>', '{databasename}']

--------------

DEFINING BACKUP COMMANDS
========================

When creating backup or restore commands, there are a few template
variables you can use in the commands (listed below). Also note, ending
a command with > or < will pipe the file contents from or to the command
respectively.

::

    {databasename}: Name of the database from settings.py
    {servername}: Optional SERVER_NAME setting in settings.py
    {datetime}: Current datetime string (see DBBACKUP_DATE_FORMAT).
    {extension}: File extension for the current database.

--------------

GLOBAL SETTINGS
===============

**DBBACKUP\_STORAGE (required)** - String pointing to django-dbbackup
location module to use when performing a backup. You can see the exact
definitions to use in the required settings for the backup location of
your choice above.

**DBBACKUP\_SEND\_EMAIL (optional)** - Controls whether or not
django-dbbackup sends an error email when an uncaught exception is
received. This is ``True`` by default.

**DBBACKUP\_DATE\_FORMAT (optional)** - The Python datetime format to
use when generating the backup filename. By default this is
'%Y-%m-%d-%H%M%S'.

**DBBACKUP\_SERVER\_NAME (optional)** - An optional server name to use
when generating the backup filename. This is useful to help distinguish
between development and production servers. By default this value is not
used and the servername is not included in the generated filename.

**DBBACKUP\_FILENAME\_TEMPLATE (optional)** - The template to use when
generating the backup filename. By default this is
'{databasename}-{servername}-{datetime}.{extension}'. This setting can
also be made a method which takes the following keyword arguments:

::

    def backup_filename(databasename, servername, timestamp, extension, wildcard):
        pass

This allows you to modify the entire format of the filename based on the
time of day, week, or month. For example, if you want to take advantage
of Amazon S3's automatic expiry feature, you need to prefix your backups
differently based on when you want them to expire.

**DBBACKUP\_CLEANUP\_KEEP (optional)** - The number of backups to keep
when specifying the --clean flag. Defaults to keeping 10 + the first
backup of each month.

**DBBACKUP\_GPG\_RECIPIENT (optional)** - The name of the key that is
used for encryption. This setting is only used when making a backup with
the --encrypt option.

**DBBACKUP\_GPG\_ALWAYS\_TRUST (optional)** - Always trust the gpg key
(True), or not (False). The default value is False. This setting is only
used when making a backup with the --encrypt option.

**DBBACKUP\_MEDIA\_PATH (optional)** - The path that will be backed up
by the 'backup\_media' command. If this option is not set, then the
MEDIA\_ROOT setting is used.

Encryption Settings
-------------------

You can encrypt a backup with the --encrypt option. The backup is done
using gpg.

::

    python manage.py dbbackup --encrypt

Requirements:

-  Install the python package python-gnupg:
   ``pip install python-gnupg``.
-  You need gpg key.
-  Set the setting 'DBBACKUP\_GPG\_RECIPIENT' to the name of the gpg
   key.

**DBBACKUP\_GPG\_RECIPIENT (required)** - Name of the gpg key used for
encryption.

**DBBACKUP\_GPG\_ALWAYS\_TRUST (optional)** - The encryption of the
backup file fails if gpg does not trust the public encryption key. The
solution is to set the option 'trust-model' to 'always'. By default this
value is False. Set this to True to enable this option.

--------------

COMMON ERRORS
=============

**ERROR [403] The provided token does not allow this operation**

Creating an app in Dropbox defaults access to "app\_folder" as opposed
to whole folder. Try changing the setting
DBBACKUP\_DROPBOX\_ACCESS\_TYPE to 'app\_folder'. (Ref: issue #9)

**Postgres Backups Keep Prompting for Password**

Postgres does not allow scripting the password within the commands. You
can however create a .pgpass file in your home directory which the
command line tools will use. Read more about it here:
http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.3/static/libpq-pgpass.html
