Storing backups on Amazon S3
============================

In order to backup to Amazon S3, you'll first need to create an Amazon
Webservices Account and setup your Amazon S3 bucket. Once that is
complete, you can follow the required setup below.

Setup Your Django Project
-------------------------

1.) Install django-dbbackup and the required boto dependancy:

::

    cd django-dbbackup
    python setup.py install
    pip install boto

2.) Add 'dbbackup' to INSTALLED\_APPS in your settings.py file.

3.) Include the required settings below.

::

    DBBACKUP_STORAGE = 'dbbackup.storage.s3_storage'
    DBBACKUP_S3_BUCKET = '<amazon_bucket_name>'
    DBBACKUP_S3_ACCESS_KEY = '<amazon_access_key>'
    DBBACKUP_S3_SECRET_KEY = '<amazon_secret_key>'

4.) Now you're ready to use the backup management commands.

Available Settings
------------------

**DBBACKUP\_S3\_BUCKET (required)** - The name of the Amazon S3 bucket
to store your backups. This directory must exist before attempting to
create your first backup.

**DBBACKUP\_S3\_ACCESS\_KEY (required)** - Your Amazon Account Access
Key. This can be found on your Amazon Account Security Credentials page.
Note: Do not share this key with anyone you do not trust with access to
your Amazon files.

**DBBACKUP\_S3\_SECRET\_KEY (required)** - Your Amazon Account Secret
Key. This can be found in the same location as your Access Key above.

**DBBACKUP\_S3\_DIRECTORY (optional)** - The directory in your Amazon S3
bucket you wish to save your backups. By default this is set to
'django-dbbackups/'.

**DBBACKUP\_S3\_DOMAIN (optional)** - Specify the Amazon domain to use
when transferring the generated backup files. For example, this can be
set to 's3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com'. By default, this is
's3.amazonaws.com'.

**DBBACKUP\_S3\_IS\_SECURE (optional)** - Set False to disable using
SSL. Default is True.
